# Metaverse-Sentiment-Analysis (BYUN)

The metaverse has piqued entrepreneur Mark Zuckerberg's interest, and ever since Facebook changed it's name to Meta in October of 2021, Mark has started obsessing about the metaverse, and saw it as the next big thing in the world of tech. However, the public's response was very underwhelming judging from responses found on social media platforms like twitter and youtube, though there weren't a whole lot of credible and reliable news sources that can be cited to back up this fact. One newsource says that last October in 2022, Meta's stock prices plummeted by 67 percent compared to prices from a year ago. Even after taking into account a huge hit on stock prices with every big tech companies in general, the drop in Meta stock prices were almost twice as much as other tech giants. 

Comments were scraped from youtube using a library named youtube comment scraper made by DataKund that utilizes browser automation to fetch youtube comments. Comments from Meta's official youtube channel doesn't exist because the comment sections there are disabled all together, which meant that I had no choice but to get comments from other famous youtuber's videos that addresses the metaverse and mark zuckerberg. The video from which the comment was scraped is titled 'Metaverse is Dead'. Then, the necessary pre-processing of data was done. To ensure that most of the relevant data stays in tact, the following measures were taken into account. First, emoticons and emojis were converted to text that represents the maening of it, this way the laughing emoji will just turn into the word 'laugh', instead of it disappearing after filtering out irrelevant characters. Regex was used to remove characters that were not alpha numerical characters. The text file that was output after scraping comments were separated by new line for each sentence. Sentences that had less than 3 words in them were removed, as those almost always consisted of usernames or text from youtube's interface itself that won't give useful information. Stopwords were removed and words were lemmatized and converted into lowercase. The first bit of sentiment analysis was done with a lexicon based approach using textblob, then a second one was done with a machine based approach that uses BERT, each result saved in a csv file. 
